Feat: semantic prompt guard plugin (#7770)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/kong-inc/ai-semantic-prompt-guard/overview/_index.md

---
nav_title: Overview
---

> The AI Semantic Prompt Guard plugin is an enhancement of the AI Prompt Guard plugin; it lets you to allow or block prompts based on a list of similar prompts, to guard against misuse of `llm/v1/chat` or `llm/v1/completions` requests.

Author: ```suggestion
The AI Semantic Prompt Guard plugin enhances the AI Prompt Guard plugin by allowing you to permit or block prompts based on a list of similar prompts, helping to prevent misuse of `llm/v1/chat` or `llm/v1/completions` requests.
```

> It does this by scanning all chat messages for the specific expressions set.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 
> You can use a combination of `allow` and `deny` rules to preserve integrity and compliance when serving an LLM service using {{site.base_gateway}}.

Author: ```suggestion

You can use a combination of `allow` and `deny` rules to maintain integrity and compliance when serving an LLM service using {{site.base_gateway}}.
```

{:.note}
> This plugin extends the functionality of the [AI Proxy plugin](/hub/kong-inc/ai-proxy/), and requires AI Proxy to be configured first. 

> Check out the [AI Gateway quickstart](/gateway/latest/get-started/ai-gateway/) to get an AI proxy up and running within minutes!

Author: ```suggestion
Check out the [AI Gateway quickstart](/gateway/latest/get-started/ai-gateway/) to get an AI proxy up and running within minutes.
```
